# CoRE Virtual interim - 2022-11-23 - 15:00-16:30 UTC

Chairs:

* Marco Tiloca, RISE
* Jaime Jiménez, Ericsson
* Carsten Bormann, TZI

## Remote instructions

Material: https://datatracker.ietf.org/meeting/interim-2022-core-16/session/core
Meetecho: https://meetings.conf.meetecho.com/interim/?short=737345ad-76fb-4cb9-8795-651b2cef06e3
Notes: https://notes.ietf.org/notes-ietf-interim-2022-core-16-core
Jabber: core@jabber.ietf.org
Zulip: https://zulip.ietf.org/#narrow/stream/21-core

Minute takers: Marco Tiloca
Jabber scribes: Marco Tiloca

## Agenda

### Note Well

Remember that the [note well](https://www.ietf.org/about/note-well/) applies, for [IPR](https://tools.ietf.org/html/bcp79) but also for [WG processes](https://tools.ietf.org/html/bcp25) and [code of conduct](https://tools.ietf.org/html/bcp54). Please be nice to each other.

### Jabber & Minutes / Agenda bashing

### CoRE Target Attribute Registry

* https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-bormann-core-target-attr/

MT: Adopted today as WG document.

CB: It is in a pretty good shape already. It's about being sure that we collect target attributes already around, and that we have a good registration policy.

RH: Can you automate the extraction of target attributes?
CB: It might require natural language processing.

CB: I haven't formally checked for its consistency with the CoRE charter, but it's pretty clear that it acts as maintenance of RFC 6690, based on a direction now coming from RFC 8288.
(no objections heard)

CB: Timeline for this draft?
MT: Complete on Q1 2023?
CB: If possible, we can even try for WGLC this year, at least starting it.

MJK: I agree with Carsten, this can go quickly. This document can encode a lot of policies. It has to be correct as to registration and good maintainance of the registry.

MT: For information, we'll soon submit a revision of -core-oscore-edhoc, where some target attributes will be renamed to correctly use "-" instead of the underscore character. Then -core-target-attr can be updated accordingly.
MT: Also related to attributes from -core-oscore-edhoc, I'd expect some bikeshadding around their names, to have an EDHOC-related prefix and to see if it's possible to shorten them. That would probably happen during WGLC of -core-oscore-edhoc and spans over both documents.

MT: Ari also had a comment during the adoption call, on having the definition of target attributes more specific, especially those from -core-oscore-discovery. However, especially those have a general meaning that holds in contexts different than OSCORE groups.
CB: We have to find a balance on the level of specificity.
MT: Yes, I am ust trying to avoid a sort of "point squatting", where two attributes are registered, and they mean the same thing but just in different contexts.
CB: At the same time, we can't really prevent people from misusing (registered) attributes.

### HREF

* https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-ietf-core-href/
* https://github.com/core-wg/href/wiki/uri-schemes-that-we-want-numbers-for

CB: There is a new PR for one of the open issues now. See https://github.com/core-wg/href/pull/58 . This addresses the issue on rootless no-authority CRIs without path.
MT: It looks good at a first glance. You can ask Thomas and Christian for a review.
CB: Will do.

MT: It was discussed how to address the remaining issues. Do you plan a PR for those?
CB: Yes.
MT: An exception is the issue about test vectors. Do you plan more interop/comparison at least with Thomas?
CB: Yes.

MT: We also have the wiki (see link above) where to collect the negative integers to pre-register as abbreviations of URI schemes.
MT: The idea was to first extend the minimal set of usual suspects in the CDDL definition of a CRI (including also coap+, coaps+, ...), and then take this minimal set as starting point for the registration in this document.
CB: We may want to include also MQTT.
MT: Then it's about what we want to further pick up from other existing URI schemes.
CB: Another problem is that some URI registrations are not permanent yet.
MT: That's one more thing to factor in the definition of a good registration policy. It's not going to be easy.
CB: We need to find a balance in terms of flexibility, while still giving clear criteria to the Designated Expert.

MT: Timeline for this draft?
CB: We might be able to start a WGLC this year.

### Errata resolution for CoRE documents

See https://mailarchive.ietf.org/arch/msg/core/0VM6waLVW1v3B9ghF0EmUBeZZ3E/

MT: I went through them. On 7 of them, I just agree with the proposal from Francesca. I have comments on the other 3 ones.

MT: On https://www.rfc-editor.org/errata/eid4895 , can't this also be verified instead of hold for doc update?
FP: I think it requires more work, has implications for IANA, and feels cleaner in a separate document updating RFC 7252.
CB: Yes, and that document can be -corrclar, see https://github.com/core-wg/corrclar

MT: On https://www.rfc-editor.org/errata/eid4948 , I double-checked and think that the content is correct. Like Francesca said, it's probably not possible to use the notation [...] and we may have to re-include a lot of unchanged text too.
FP: That's maybe something to check with the RFC Editor.
CB: I can do that.

MT: On https://www.rfc-editor.org/errata/eid4954 , I was leaning towards verifying this one, but like for the first discussed errata, it's better to have it hold for an update, due to the IANA implications.
CB: And again the updating document can be -corrclar.
MT: Also, probably other documents made the some mistake that this errata is trying to fix in RFC 7252.
CB: -corrclar can update those documents too; let's just hope they're not too many.
MT: At least they're clearly identifiable from the "CoAP Content-Formats" registry.

CB: On https://www.rfc-editor.org/errata/eid5429 , I agree that it should be rejected. When updating RFC 7252, -corrclar can clarify on this point too, providing the rationale behind the contested design, also supported by the LWIG document https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-ietf-lwig-coap/
FP: Please provide a pointer in a reply to the thread in the mailing list.
CB: Will do.
(see https://mailarchive.ietf.org/arch/msg/core/xNnPJKCQJnFDj64H13d_AljuB50/ )

MT: A good place for collecting these points is the "CoAP FAQ" in the CoRE WG Wiki, see https://github.com/core-wg/wiki/wiki/CoAP-FAQ . Most of the current entries are potential material for -corrclar.

CB: Based on a quick look on the list of erratas, I agree with the proposed resolution.

MT: Let's confirm at the next interim meeting in two weeks.

### AOB

MT: Next interim meetings in 2 weeks is planned to be about -core-sid and on confirming the resolution of the erratas.

---

*[MT]: Marco Tiloca
*[JJ]: Jaime Jiménez
*[FP]: Francesca Palombini
*[JPM]: John Preuß Mattsson
*[CB]: Carsten Bormann
*[CA]: Christian Amsüss
*[KH]: Klaus Hartke
*[RH]: Rikard Höglund
*[TF]: Thomas Fossati
*[DN]: David Navarro
*[GS]: Göran Selander
*[BS]: Bilhanan Silverajan
*[AS]: Alan Soloway
*[MCR]: Michael Richardson
*[AK]: Ari Keränen
*[MJK]: Michael Koster
*[NW]: Niklas Widell
*[ED]: Esko Dijk
*[EB]: Henk Birkholz
*[ST]: Sean Turner
*[ML]: Martine Lenders
*[MW]: Matthias Wählisch
