# CoRE Virtual interim - 2020-10-08 - 14:00 UTC

Chairs:

* Marco Tiloca, RISE
* Jaime Jiménez, Ericsson

## Remote instructions

material: https://datatracker.ietf.org/meeting/interim-2020-core-10/session/core
webex: https://ietf.webex.com/ietf/j.php?MTID=mb3ef6f63cca8d4c20803296e5f07702f
jabber: core@jabber.ietf.org
codimd: https://codimd.ietf.org/notes-ietf-interim-2020-core-10-core?both

Minute takers: Marco
Jabber scribes: Marco


## Participants

1. Marco Tiloca, RISE
2. Jaime Jiménez, Ericsson
3. Rikard Höglund, RISE
4. Michael Richardson, Sandelman Software Works
5. Carsten Bormann, TZI
6. Peter Yee, AKAYLA
7. Francesca Palombini, Ericsson
8. Göran Selander, Ericsson
9. Christian Amsüss
10. Alan Soloway, Qualcomm

*[MT]: Marco Tiloca
*[JJ]: Jaime Jiménez
*[FP]: Francesca Palombini
*[CB]: Carsten Bormann
*[CA]: Christian Amsüss
*[KH]: Klaus Hartke
*[RH]: Rikard Höglund
*[TF]: Thomas Fossati
*[DN]: David Navarro
*[GS]: Göran Selander
*[BS]: Bilhanan Silverajan
*[AS]: Alan Soloway
*[MR]: Michael Richardson

## Agenda

### Note Well

Remember that the [note well](https://datatracker.ietf.org/submit/note-well/) applies, for [IPR](https://tools.ietf.org/html/bcp79) but also for [WG processes](https://tools.ietf.org/html/bcp25) and [code of conduct](https://tools.ietf.org/html/bcp54). Try to be nice.

### Stateless (Michael Richardson)

   - Processing of IESG comments
   - https://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-ietf-core-stateless
   - https://github.com/core-wg/stateless/issues

   Presented slides: https://www.ietf.org/proceedings/interim-2020-core-10/slides/slides-interim-2020-core-10-sessa-core-stateless-open-issues-00.pdf

[MR] This was holding back a 6tisch document. Now we have issues on Github for the open points to address.

[MR] Relaxing words about key management to non-normative. Also handling a sleeping node, has to either store the nonce use to integrity-protect, or generate a new key.

[CA] If the device remembers the key, it's committed to persistent memory.

[CB] If you use sequence numbers you can just move to the next large set of sequence numbers to be safe. It should have been written in an RFC before.

[CA] That should be OSCORE (RFC 8613), Appendix B1.1.

[MR] On issue #10, about 60 minutes as waiting time in case of address change, needs some refinement. Needed context on why 60 minutes.

[CB] This can be an explicit parameter, building on the parameters from CoAP, like ACK_TIMEOUT.

[MR] Actually added both a min (don't bother before then) and a max (has to check again).

[MT] The suggested values can be reasonable default values to recommend, considering possible new defined parameters to cover this.

[MR] I might need help to phrase this using the original CoAP parameters.

[MR] Issue #5 on spoofed response should be just fine now.

[CB] I like it. Someone may require explanations on the change done.

[MR] The reasons is it's a local decision.

[MR] Issues 3/4/6/7/9 are labeled as "wont fix". People should review to confirm this is fine.

[CB] We need text justifying why we don't fix it. Seems to be the last thing actually missing.

### CoRE Resource Directory (Christian Amsüss)

  - Processing of IESG comments
  - https://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-ietf-core-resource-directory
  - https://github.com/core-wg/resource-directory/issues

[CA] Text in Section 3.5 seems to have many buzzwords that can make understanding difficult. Some rewording with more focus on the functionality can help.

[CB] Start by deleting the sentence? Not sure what it intends to say.

[MR] If the sentence has real value, it might fit better in the introduction.

[CA] Going through the comment on possible DHCP usage with SLAAC.

[MR] There's only three cases.

[CA] Clear how to progress.

[CA] Going through the comment on replay protection, now to be explicitly required for RDs using DTLS.

[CB] Not a problem in OSCORE, right? A response is bound to a request.

[CA] It concerns OSCORE as well in principle, until a timeout triggers a new request to be sent with a new Sender Sequence Number. So it's conceptually the same.

[CB] You can use the Echo option.

[CA] That's a possibility, but it implies knowledge for the server about freshness requirements.

[CB] Can we recommend it? It solves the problem.

[CA] Not quite, the client has to forget the Echo value to not misuse it as if it was a Cookie.

[CB] A fresh Echo option then?

[CA] That means that the sequence of updates is ordered by the Echo option. It should work.

[CB] So the server can define freshness, and an update is fine if issued under the latest hour or so. Then the update request has to come under the same session and a fresh Echo option.

[CA] Might be not necessary to strictly bind to a time interval. For the RD, it's not as critical as for other types of applications anyway. I can sketch some text.

[CB] The attacker would have to evaluate the value of performing the attack.

[MR] The attacker would aim to restore an RD entry supposed to be gone?

[CA] More keeping a registration alive for some time, or delete a registration.

[JJ] Can it bring back existing observations? I guess no.

[CA] Not if the RD is used as intended. Still the attacker cannot steal identities. It can inject and delete again.

[MR] An attacker that can replay can put back in an entry that was deleted by a device that has just gone to sleep.

[CA] An attacker can still have opportunities even if replay protection is enforced, it just becomes harder to exploit them.

[MR] This is worth making it clearer.

[CB] The Echo option is a mitigation, it can be added here, though creating one more normative reference.

[CA] That shouldn't be too much of a problem.

[MT] It's in AD review. Authors addressed Barry's comments and replied to him.

[CA] Going through the comment on Commissioning Tools (CT).

[MR] As far as I know, it typically arrives with the installer of some kind and then it leaves and is returned.

[CA] That would be bad.

[MR] Because this talks about a keepalive instead.

[JJ] This is about registration update, right?

[CA] Yes.

[MR] Open an issue assigned to me, Peter van der Stok and Esko. We can help on this.

[CA] Going through the comment on authorization bound to resources. The endpoint verifies that the RD's credential are good to believe it as a RD.

[CB] Authorization should be for the resource, not for the host.

[CA] In a way or another (e.g. certificate) there is a binding with the host's identity.

[CB] Perhaps we need to write the example in more detail. Host-based only authorization is no good.

[MR] In OAuth, just make up more names.

[CA] That shifts a bit the point of view in the CoAP examples. We may need also to maintain many more OSCORE contexts than we thought necessary.

[JJ] Anything that can be fixed with attributes?

[CA] If a client relies on any property of a resource (hard to phrase), that can help for a refined lookup building on well-known.

[MR] So, if you create more host names, you end up establishing more OSCORE contexts.

[CA] It would help expressing the authorization to a resource representing the RD service.

[CB] The authorization information should say that the host is trustable to publish.

[CA] I'll start something along these lines.

[CA] Going through the comment on First-Come-First-Remembered security model, now giving a default policy. Needs to be reviewed.

[JJ] I will have a look.

[CB] I will also review.

[CA] Anything else is minor. I continue processing towards a pull request. Plan to: merge in the next few days; checking with the group on candidate new version to submit and point-to-point replies to IESG comments; submission of new version.

### AOB

[CB] Proposed to have Christian moved as first in the author list of the RD document.

[JJ] Agree.

[MT] Yes, +1.

[CB] Nice to check with authors, while chairs can just do that.

[JJ] Will be also circulated on the mailing list.
